Incident report analysis

Instructions
As you continue through this course, you may use this template to record your findings after completing an activity 
or to take notes on what you've learned about a specific tool or concept. You can also use this chart as a way 
to practice applying the NIST framework to different situations you encounter.


Summary: The company experienced a security event when all network services 
suddenly stopped responding. The cybersecurity team found the disruption 
was caused by a distributed denial of services (DDoS) attack through a flood 
of incoming ICMP packets. The team responded by blocking the attack and 
stopping all non-critical network services, so that critical network services could be restored.

Identify: A malicious actor or actors targeted the company with an ICMP flood attack. 
The entire internal network was affected. All critical network resources needed to be secured and restored to a functioning state.

Protect: The cybersecurity team implemented a new firewall rule to limit the rate of 
incoming ICMP packets and an IDS/IPS system to filter out some ICMP traffic based on suspicious characteristics.

Detect: The cybersecurity team configured source IP address verification on the 
firewall to check for spoofed IP addresses on incoming ICMP packets 
implemented network monitoring software to detect abnormal traffic patterns. 

Respond: For future security events, the cybersecurity team will isolate affected 
systems to prevent further disruption to the network. They will attempt to restore 
any critical systems and services that were disrupted by the event. Then, the team 
will analyze network logs to check for suspicious and abnormal activity.
The team will also report all incidents to upper management and appropriate legal authorities, if applicable.

Recover: To recover from a DDoS attack by ICMP flooding, access to network services 
need to be restored to a normal functioning state. In the future, external ICMP flood attacks can be blocked at the firewall. 
Then, all non-critical network services should be stopped to reduce internal network traffic. 
Next, critical network services should be restored first. 
Finally, once the flood of ICMP packets have timed out, all non-critical network systems and services can be brought back online.


